### Communicating in the modern world. Can we stop it please? 
We've let companies desensitise us to insanity. Normal people even write with company level insanity. You know, you've seen it on LinkedIn. You read a post of someone you went to school with and thought, "what the fuck are you saying? Are you a real person or a caricature?".

As a company somewhere on your website you've got to have an "About us" or "Who we are". And in there you've got to stuff a whole lot of nonsense. The easiest way to do this is list values. Deutsche Bank set a good example by having 31 dense pages describing their code of conduct. The Deutsche Bank who in 2017 was fined for assisting Russian money laundering, who in 2017 agreed a settlement for their key involvement in selling criminal mortgage back securities, who in 2015 was fined for involvement in the Libor rate scam. I'm not anti-capitalism, I just find the way the lie so openly irritating.

They are extreme, but the values or mission or vision or purpose for most companies are ridiculous. Essentially, they force a reasonable business idea to become a saintly mission. How about we just aim to make good quality food easily available? That's a fine aim. We all like good food. Instead we say that we're battling climate change by reducing food waste. Its a little over the top. The fake purpose is worse than the pursuit of a sensible one. It feels silly. We know we aren't up to building electric spaceships, we're in these ordinairy jobs because we weren't up to it. We know that. We know you are the same. Don't lie to us.

Companies go wild with the product names too. On easyjet flights they call the rattling metal food trolley that contains packaged snacks that could survive a nuclear winter “our boutique bistro service”.

I've never heard anyone turn to their neighbour and say 'They're coming through the cabin with What??' 'I think she said boutique bistro service babe'. I've been on a lot of easyjet flights, no one laughs, no one seems to notice. We should notice. They're being crazy. 

Check out some job ads. Many don't mean anything. Cleaners need passion for cleaning. You're paying the minimum wage. The job itself objectively sucks. How about you drop the passion requirement you crazy bastards? And the same for the other end. You're paying 150k. Let's not pretend people are applying because they're passionate about high quality enterprise customer relations! It would be better for all of us if we just say, I'm going to trade my best effort to do what you need doing and you give me the money. No charades of practiced answers. Just some space for honesty. 

Tell us something useful in the job ad. Every company is looking for “independent” people who are “great team players” that can “thrive in a fast paced environment”. It may as well not be said. We know you didn't think hard about it and are probably lying. Just think, don't copy.

Maybe it would be too tiring to notice all this? To try to not contribute to it? Maybe if you try your boss won't like your branding suggestions anymore and you might not get a pay rise. Or you'll find yourself unemployed and your applications and interview performance will be evaluated "not a great culture fit" and you'll get wound up and shout on the internet about things that have been said a million times before but haven't seemed to make any difference at all.
